Upload 3 vignettes copied from branch 291 (#317)
Merck/simtrial: vignettes/sim_fixed_design_custom.Rmd

---
title: "Custom Fixed Design Simulations: A Tutorial on Writing Code from the Ground Up"
author: "Yujie Zhao and Keaven Anderson"
output: rmarkdown::html_vignette
bibliography: simtrial.bib
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Custom Fixed Design Simulations: A Tutorial on Writing Code from the Ground Up}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
---

```{r, message=FALSE, warning=FALSE}
library(gsDesign2)
library(simtrial)
library(dplyr)
library(gt)

> library(doFuture)

Reviewer: It looks like you removed `library(tibble)` here. Since you explicitly call `tribble()` twice in this vignette, and also chose to add {tibble} to Suggests, you should include it here. Sorry for any confusion from my previous review. Once you add it back, you can merge.

Reviewer: Please add back `library(tibble)` in this one spot. Then you can re-request a review from me, and I will approve

---
title: "Custom Fixed Design Simulations: A Tutorial on Writing Code from the Ground Up"
author: "Yujie Zhao and Keaven Anderson"
output: rmarkdown::html_vignette
bibliography: simtrial.bib
vignette: >
  %\VignetteIndexEntry{Custom Fixed Design Simulations: A Tutorial on Writing Code from the Ground Up}
  %\VignetteEngine{knitr::rmarkdown}
---

```{r, message=FALSE, warning=FALSE}
library(gsDesign2)
library(simtrial)
library(dplyr)

> library(tibble)

Reviewer: Is this necessary to load {tibble}? I just removed it from the other vignette in https://github.com/Merck/simtrial/pull/315. It generates the NOTE:

```
* checking for unstated dependencies in vignettes ... NOTE
'library' or 'require' call not declared from: ‘tibble’
```

If you never directly call a function from {tibble}, then there is no need to load it.

Author: Yes, it is removable. I get it off in the new commit.

```{r}
cut_date_c <- get_analysis_date(data = uncut_data,
                                max_extension_for_target_event = 12,
                                target_event_overall = 300)
```

Users can cut data after 12 months followup when 80\% of the patients are enrolled in the overall population as below. This is not enabled in `timing_type` of `sim_fixed_n()`.

```{r}
cut_date_d <- get_analysis_date(data = uncut_data,
                                min_n_overall = 100 * 0.8,
                                min_followup = 12)
```

More examples are available in the [reference page of `get_analysis_date()`](https://merck.github.io/simtrial/reference/get_analysis_date.html) For illustration purposes, we will focus on scenario d) for the following discussion.

```{r}
cut_date <- cut_date_d
cat("The cutoff date is ", round(cut_date, 2))

cut_data <- uncut_data |> cut_data_by_date(cut_date)
cut_data |> head() |> gt() |> tab_header(paste0("An Overview of TTE data Cut at ", round(cut_date, 2), "Months"))
```

# Step 3: Run tests

> The `simtrial` package provides many options for testing methods, including (weighted) logrank tests, RMST test, milestone test, and MaxComboi test, see the [Section "Compute p-values/test statistics" at the pkgdown reference page] (https://merck.github.io/simtrial/reference/index.html#compute-p-values-test-statistics).

Reviewer: Looking at the other vignettes, I believe our convention in this repository is to refer to R package names without any extra syntax

Author: Is there a way we could refer to a vignette of an R pkg?

Reviewer: You mean so that you can click on a link and view it? The easiest would probably be to simply create a link to the vignette in the pkgdown site if the package has one

Author: > You mean so that you can click on a link and view it? 

Yes.

> The easiest would probably be to simply create a link to the vignette in the pkgdown site if the package has one.

This is what I put on this PR. The vignette link is saved in the Rmd file. Could you please re-review it?

Reviewer: The links to the pkgdown website are fine.

My original comment was related to how you are typing out the simtrial package. In these vignettes, you are surrounding simtrial with backticks. We don't do that in the other vignettes in this package. I am suggesting you remove the backticks for consistency, but I don't feel strongly about it. You can leave them if you like.

Author: I got you! Sorry, I misunderstood your comments. I make a new commit to get the typing of simtrial consistent with the other vignettes.

- The Z-score for the testing method, accessible via `sim_res_rmst$z`. Please note that the Z-score is not provided for the MaxCombo test; instead, the p-value is reported (`sim_res_mc$p_value`).

```{r}
sim_res <- tribble(
  ~Method, ~Parameter, ~Z, ~Estimate, ~SE, ~`P value`,
  sim_res_lr$method, sim_res_lr$parameter, sim_res_lr$z, sim_res_lr$estimate, sim_res_lr$se, pnorm(-sim_res_lr$z),
  sim_res_fh$method, sim_res_fh$parameter, sim_res_fh$z, sim_res_fh$estimate, sim_res_fh$se, pnorm(-sim_res_fh$z),
  sim_res_mb$method, sim_res_mb$parameter, sim_res_mb$z, sim_res_mb$estimate, sim_res_mb$se, pnorm(-sim_res_mb$z),
  sim_res_xu$method, sim_res_xu$parameter, sim_res_xu$z, sim_res_xu$estimate, sim_res_xu$se, pnorm(-sim_res_xu$z),
  sim_res_rmst$method, sim_res_rmst$parameter|> as.character(), sim_res_rmst$z, sim_res_rmst$estimate, sim_res_rmst$se, pnorm(-sim_res_rmst$z),
  sim_res_ms$method, sim_res_ms$parameter |> as.character(), sim_res_ms$z, sim_res_ms$estimate, sim_res_ms$se, pnorm(-sim_res_ms$z),
  sim_res_mc$method, sim_res_mc$parameter, NA, NA, NA, sim_res_mc$p_value

>   ) 

Reviewer: I see here is where you directly call `tribble()` from the {tibble} package. To keep this usage, please add {tibble} to the field Suggests in `DESCRIPTION`

Author: Thanks for checking. I added it back.

    sim_res_ms <- cut_data |> milestone(ms_time = ms$ms_time)
    sim_res_mc <- cut_data |> maxcombo(rho = mc$rho, gamma = mc$gamma)
    
    sim_res <- tribble(
      ~`Sim ID`, ~Method, ~Parameter, ~Z, ~Estimate, ~SE, ~`P value`,
      sim_id, sim_res_lr$method, sim_res_lr$parameter, sim_res_lr$z, sim_res_lr$estimate, sim_res_lr$se, pnorm(-sim_res_lr$z),
      sim_id, sim_res_fh$method, sim_res_fh$parameter, sim_res_fh$z, sim_res_fh$estimate, sim_res_fh$se, pnorm(-sim_res_fh$z),
      sim_id, sim_res_mb$method, sim_res_mb$parameter, sim_res_mb$z, sim_res_mb$estimate, sim_res_mb$se, pnorm(-sim_res_mb$z),
      sim_id, sim_res_xu$method, sim_res_xu$parameter, sim_res_xu$z, sim_res_xu$estimate, sim_res_xu$se, pnorm(-sim_res_xu$z),
      sim_id, sim_res_rmst$method, sim_res_rmst$parameter|> as.character(), sim_res_rmst$z, sim_res_rmst$estimate, sim_res_rmst$se, pnorm(-sim_res_rmst$z),
      sim_id, sim_res_ms$method, sim_res_ms$parameter |> as.character(), sim_res_ms$z, sim_res_ms$estimate, sim_res_ms$se, pnorm(-sim_res_ms$z),
      sim_id, sim_res_mc$method, sim_res_mc$parameter, NA, NA, NA, sim_res_mc$p_value
  ) 
      
    return(sim_res)
}
```

> After that, we will execute `one_sim()` multiple times using parallel computation. The following lines of code takes 2 works to run 100 simulations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, we will execute `one_sim()` multiple times using parallel computation. The following lines of code uses 2 workers to run 100 simulations. 
```
